Description of Kosakonia calanthes sp. nov.
 Kosakonia calanthes (ca.lan'thes. N.L. gen. n. calanthes of Calanthe, the plant Calanthe triplicata from which the type strain was isolated).
Colonies are transparent, round protrusions with a moist surface and have a diameter of ~1.22.5 mm after 96 h of incubation at 30  on TSB agar. The cells are Gram-stain-negative, facultative anaerobic, motile, catalase-positive, oxidase-negative and rod-shaped (~1.32.9 m in length and 0.40.6 m in width). Growth occurs at pH 4.010.0 and temperatures ranging from 4  to 45  with a NaCl concentration of 07% (w/v), while optimal growth is observed at pH 8.0 and a temperature of 37  with a NaCl concentration of 01% (w/v). It shows a positive result for the MR test. Fermentation occurs from d-mannitol, d-arabinose, l-arabinose, d-ribose, d-xylose, l-xylose, d-adonitol, methyl--xylopyranoside, d-galactose, d-glucose, d-fructose, d-mannose, l-rhamnose, inositol, d-mannitol, d-sorbitol, methyl--d-glucopyranoside, N-acetylglucosamine, amygdalin, arbutin, aesculin ferric citrate, salicin, d-cellobiose, d-maltose, d-lactose, d-melibiose, d-trehalose, xylitol, d-gentiobiose, d-lyxose, d-fucose, d-arabitol, d-sucrose, potassium gluconate, potassium 2-ketogluconate and potassium 5-ketogluconate but not from l-sorbose, methyl--d-mannopyranoside, inulin, d-turanose, d-tagatose, l-arabitol and inositol. A weak fermentation occurs from erythritol, d-melezitose, d-raffinose, starch and glycogen. It shows positive reactions for arginine dihydrolase, -galactosidase and gelatinase but negative reactions for citrate utilization, lysine decarboxylase, ornithine decarboxylase, tryptophan deaminase and H2S production. It also tests positive for the VP reaction but negative for indole production and urea hydrolysis. The polar lipids include unidentified lipids (L), PL, PE, PG and APL. The major fatty acids consist of C16:0, sum of C16:1 7c/C16:1 6c, C17 : 0 cyclo and C18:1 7c.
The type strain CCTCC AB 2023082T (=JCM 36393T) was isolated from the leaves of C. triplicata. The DNA G+C content of strain CCTCC AB 2023082T is 54.2 mol%. The GenBank accession number for the 16S rRNA gene sequence of strain CCTCC AB 2023082T is OR177835, while the genome can be accessed through the GenBank with the accession number CP151800.
 Description of Kosakonia calanthes sp. nov.Description of Kodamaea schenbergiae Santa-Brigida, A. R. O. Santos, M. B. Martins, L. H. Rosa, M. A. Lachance & C. A. Rosa sp. nov.
 Kodamaea schenbergiae (schen.bergi.ae. N.L. gen. n. schenbergiae, of Schenberg, in honour of Ana Clara Guerrini Schenberg, in recognition of her contributions to the study of yeast genetics and biotechnology in Brazil).
On YM agar, after 3 days at 25 C, cells are ovoid to elongate (24511 m) and occur singly or in pairs (Fig. 3). Budding is multilateral. Colonies are convex, white to cream-coloured, with an entire margin. In yeast extract (0.5%)-glucose (2%) broth after 14 days, sediment is formed, and a pellicle and a ring are observed. In Dalmau plate culture after 2 weeks on cornmeal agar, pseudohyphae with blastoconidia are formed but not true mycelia. Asci or signs of conjugation are not seen on sporulation media. Fermentation of glucose is negative. Glucose, raffinose, melibiose (variable), trehalose (variable), maltose (variable), melezitose (variable), cellobiose (variable), salicin (variable/weak), sorbose (variable), xylose (positive slow), ethanol (variable), glycerol (variable), ribitol (variable), mannitol, glucitol (variable), succinate (variable), citrate (variable/weak) and N-cetyl-d-glucosamine (variable/slow) are assimilated as sole carbon sources. Inulin, sucrose, galactose, lactose, soluble starch, rhamnose, l-arabinose, d-arabinose, ribose, methanol, erythritol, galactitol, myo-inositol, dl-lactate, d-gluconate, N-acetyl-d-glucosamine, hexadecane, xylitol, 2-propanol, acetone and ethylacetate are not assimilated. l-Lysine is assimilated as the sole nitrogen source. Nitrate and nitrite are not assimilated. Growth is not observed at 37 C. Growth in the presence of 0.01% cycloheximide, 10% NaCl plus 5% glucose and 1% acetic acid is negative. Growth in 50% glucose/yeast extract (0.5%) is negative. Acid production is variable. Growth in the amino-acid-free medium is positive. Starch-like compounds are not produced. The habitat is fungal fruiting bodies and drosophilid guts collected in the Amazonian ecosystem in Brazil. The holotype CBS 18628 is preserved in a metabolically inactive state in the CBS Yeast Collection of the Westerdijk Fungal Diversity Institute, Utrecht, the Netherlands. It was isolated from the surface of Drosophila sp. on Lentinula raphanica collected in Caxiuan National Forest, Amazonian ecosystem, Par state, Brazil. An isotype (metabolically inactive) of Kodamaea schenbergiae sp. nov. is deposited in the Collection of Microorganisms and Cells of Federal University of Minas Gerais (Coleo de Microrganismos e Clulas da Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, UFMG), Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais, Brazil, as strain UFMG-CM-Y6360. The MycoBank number is MB855624. The GenBank/EMBL/DDBJ accession numbers for the ITS-5.8S region and the D1/D2 domains of the large subunit rRNA gene sequences for strain UFMG-CM-Y6360 are OQ029640 and MG857090.
Fig. 3.
Kodamaea schenbergiae sp. nov. (a) Budding cells and pseudohyphae with blastoconidia on YMA after 3 days at 25 C. (b) Budding cells and pseudohyphae on cornmeal agar after 14 days at 25 C. Bar: 5 m.


Click to view
  Description of Kodamaea schenbergiae Santa-Brigida, A. R. O. Santos, M. B. Martins, L. H. Rosa, M. A. Lachance & C. A. Rosa sp. nov.Description of Suhomyces schwaniae R. Santa-Brigida, A. R. O. Santos, M. B. Martins, L. H. Rosa, M. A. Lachance & C. R. Rosa sp. nov.
 Suhomyces schwaniae (sch.wani.ae. N.L. gen. n. schwaniae, of Schwan, in honour of Rosane de Freitas Schwan, in recognition of her contributions to the study of yeasts associated with fermentations and natural substrates in Brazil).
On YM agar after 3 days at 25 C, the cells are globose to ovoid (2415 m m) and occur singly or in pairs (Fig. 4). Budding is multilateral. Colonies are small, convex and greyish-white and have an entire margin. In yeast extract (0.5%)-glucose (2%) broth after 14 days, a sediment is formed, but no pellicle or ring was observed. In Dalmau plates after 2 weeks on cornmeal agar, pseudohyphae with clusters of blastoconidia are formed. Asci or signs of conjugation were not seen on sporulation media. Fermentation of glucose is positive. Assimilation of carbon compounds is as follows: glucose, galactose, maltose (variable), sucrose (variable), cellobiose, trehalose, raffinose, melezitose (variable), d-arabinose (variable/weak), ethanol, glycerol, erythritol (variable), ribitol, d-mannitol, d-glucitol, salicin, dl-lactate (variable/weak), succinate, citrate (variable), myo-inositol (variable/weak), glucosamine (variable), xylitol (variable), ethylacetate (variable), d-gluconate (slow) and N-acetyl-d-glucosamine (slow) are positive. Growth is negative on l-sorbose, lactose, melibiose, inulin, soluble starch, d-xylose, l-arabinose, d-ribose, l-rhamnose, galactitol, methanol, hexadecane, acetone and 2-propanol. Assimilation of nitrogen compounds is as follows: positive for lysine and negative for nitrate and nitrite. Growth in the amino-acid-free medium is positive. Growth at 37 C is variable and negative at 40 C. Growth in 1% acetic acid is negative. Growth on YM agar with 10% sodium chloride is negative. Growth in 50% glucose/yeast extract (0.5%) is negative. Acid production is weak. Starch-like compounds are not produced. In 100 g cycloheximide ml1, growth is variable. Urease activity is negative. Diazonium blue B reaction is negative. The here-designated holotype CBS 18800 is preserved in a metabolically inactive state in the CBS Yeast Collection of the Westerdijk Fungal Diversity Institute, Utrecht, the Netherlands. It was isolated from a fruit fly gut collected feeding on the surface of a Nigrofomes melanoporus fruiting body, in Caxiuan National Forest, state of Par, Brazil. An isotype (metabolically inactive) of Suhomyces schwaniae sp. nov. is deposited in the Collection of Microorganisms and Cells of Federal University of Minas Gerais (Coleo de Microrganismos e Clulas da Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, UFMG), Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais, Brazil, as strain UFMG-CM-Y6429. The MycoBank number is MB855625. The GenBank/EMBL/DDBJ accession numbers for the ITS-5.8S region and the D1/D2 domains of the large subunit rRNA gene sequences for strain UFMG-CM-Y6429 are PP980957 and MH627220.
Fig. 4.
Suhomyces schenbergiae sp. nov. (a) Budding cells on YMA after 3 days at 25 C. (b) Budding cells and pseudohyphae with a cluster of blastoconidia on cornmeal agar after 14 days at 25 C.


Click to view
  Description of Suhomyces schwaniae R. Santa-Brigida, A. R. O. Santos, M. B. Martins, L. H. Rosa, M. A. Lachance & C. R. Rosa sp. nov.Description of Plantactinospora soli sp. nov.
 Plantactinospora soli (soli, L. gen. n. soli of soil, referring to the source of the type strain).
Gram-stain-positive, aerobic actinomycete forms well-developed substrate hyphae, producing single spores on the mycelium. Colonies thrive on PDA, ISP 2 and ISP 4 media; grow moderately on Czapeks agar, nutrient agar, ISP 3 and ISP 7 media; and exhibit limited growth on ISP 5 media. The optimal growth temperature is 28 C, within a range of 1537 C, and no growth at 45 C. Growth is observed in the presence of 02% (w/v) NaCl and at pH between 6 and 9, with an optimal pH of 78. Positive for casein, oxidase, catalase, milk peptonization and hydrolysis of Tween 80. Negative for starch, urease and H2S production assays. d-Galactose, d-ribose, d-fructose, d-xylose, d-mannose and cellobiose are utilized as sole carbon sources but not raffinose, d-sorbitol and inositol, l-asparagine, l-tyrosine and l-arginine are utilized as sole nitrogen sources but not l-glutamate and l-alanine. The cell wall is identified to comprise meso-diaminopimelic acid, with the principal constituents of whole-cell hydrolysates being xylose, mannose, glucose and galactose. The dominant menaquinones are characterized as MK-10(H6) and MK-10(H4). The diagnostic phospholipids consist of diphosphatidylglycerol, phosphatidylethanolamine and phosphatidylinositol. The genome spans a total length of 10 264 578 bp with a high genomic DNA G+C content of 71.6 mol%. Biosynthetic gene clusters within the genome, such as tryptophan and isoprenoid gene clusters, have been confirmed to possess the remarkable capability of synthesizing hormones that promote plant growth. The type strain is KLBMP 9567T (= CGMCC 4.7773T = NBRC 115787T), which was isolated from karstic areas of Guizhou Province, China. The GenBank accession numbers for the 16S rRNA gene and genome sequences of strain KLBMP 9567T are ON693950 and JAWQRR000000000, respectively.
 Description of Plantactinospora soli sp. nov.Description of Pseudomonas machongensis sp. nov.
 Pseudomonas machongensis (ma.chong.ensis. N.L. fem. adj. machongensis, pertaining to Machong Town, Guangdong, China, the geographical origin of the type strain).
Cells are Gram-stain-negative, strictly aerobic, non-spore-forming, motile and rod-shaped (1.22.2 m long, 0.80.9 m wide). The colonies are white, circular, smooth and the edges are regular after incubation on LB broth at 28 for 2 days. Growth occurs at 442 C (optimum, 28), pH 4.010.0 (optimum, pH 5.0) and with 06% (w/v) NaCl (optimum, 0%). Catalase and oxidase activities are both positive. Biolog GEN III Microplate assay indicates that the cells can utilize acetic acid, bromo-succinic acid, citric acid, d-aspartic acid, d-fructose, d-fructose-6-phosphate, d-fucose, d-galactose, d-galacturonic acid, d-gluconic acid, d-glucuronic acid, d-malic acid, d-mannitol, d-mannose, d-saccharic acid, d-serine, glucuronamide, l-alanine, l-arginine, l-aspartic acid, l-fucose, l-galactonic acid lactone, l-glutamic acid, l-histidine, l-lactic acid, l-malic acid, l-pyroglutamic acid, l-serine, methyl pyruvate, mucic acid, propionic acid, quinic acid, -d-glucose, -keto-glutaric acid and -amino-butyric acid. Cells are insensitive to aztreonam, fusidic acid, guanidine HCl, lincomycin, minocycline, nalidixic acid, niaproof 4, potassium tellurite, rifamycin sv, tetrazolium blue, tetrazolium violet, troleandomycin and vancomycin. The major cellular fatty acids are C16:0, C18:1 7c/C18:1 6c (summed feature 8), C16:1 7c/C16:1 6c (summed feature 3) and C17:0 cyclo, the respiratory quinone is Q-9, and the major polar lipids include DPG, PE, PG and an unidentified aminolipid.
The type strain, MH2T (=GDMCC 1.3750T=JCM 36318T), was isolated from C. annuum showing wilt disease symptoms collected from a farmland in Machong town, Guangdong, China. The genome has a size of 5.71 Mb and a GC-content of 63.12 mol%. The GenBank accession number for the 16S rRNA gene sequence of strain MH2T is PP061858; for the draft genome sequence of MH2T is JAYFUI000000000.
 Description of Pseudomonas machongensis sp. nov.Description of Stenotrophomonas capsici sp. nov.
 Stenotrophomonas capsici (capsi.ci. N.L. neut. gen n. capsici, referring to Capsicum, the genus name of pepper).
Cells are Gram-negative, strictly aerobic, non-spore-forming, motile and rod-shaped (1.33.2 m long, 0.50.6 m wide). Colonies are yellow, circular, smooth and edges are regular after incubation on LB at 28 for 2 days. Growth occurs at 442 C (optimum, 28), pH 4.010.0 (optimum, pH 4.0) and with 06% (w/v) NaCl (optimum, 0%). Catalase and oxidase activities are negative and positive, respectively. Biolog GEN III Microplate assay indicates that the cells can utilize acetic acid, acetoacetic acid, citric acid, d-cellobiose, dextrin, d-fructose, d-fructose-6-phosphate, d-fucose, d-galacturonic acid, d-glucuronic acid, d-maltose, d-mannose, d-turanose, gelatin, gentiobiose, glucuronamide, glycyl-l-proline, l-fucose, l-galactonic acid lactone, l-lactic acid, l-malic acid, N-acetyl-d-galactosamine, N-acetyl-d-glucosamine and -d-glucose. Cells are insensitive to aztreonam, guanidine HCl, lincomycin, lithium chloride, niaproof 4, rifamycin sv, tetrazolium blue, tetrazolium violet, troleandomycin and vancomycin. The major cellular fatty acids are iso-C15:0, iso-C16:0 and iso-C14:0, the respiratory quinone is Q-8, and the major polar lipids include DPG, PE, PG, as well as unidentified aminolipid, aminophospholipids, lipids and phospholipid.
The type strain, MH1T (=GDMCC 1.3749T=JCM 36317T), was isolated from C. annuum showing wilt disease symptoms collected from a farmland in Machong town, Guangdong, China. The genome has a size of 4.18 Mb and a GC-content of 67.19 mol%. The GenBank accession number for the 16S rRNA gene sequence of strain MH1T is PP060478; for the draft genome sequence of MH1T is JAYFUH000000000.
 Description of Stenotrophomonas capsici sp. nov.