Description of Chryseobacterium salviniae sp. nov.
 Chryseobacterium salviniae (sal.vini.ae. N.L. gen. n. salviniae, of water spangles, referring to the isolation from Salvinia minima).
Gram negative, non-motile, non-spore forming and obligately aerobic, showing circular (23 mm), convex, yellow/orange colonies with entire margins and a mucoid consistency on TSA plates after 24 h. Flexirubin-type pigment is present. Cells are rod-shaped, 0.751.5 m in length and 0.5 m in width. Catalase and oxidase positive. Growth occurs between 10 and 45 C, with 30 C being optimal, and from pH 4.5 to 10.0, with 7.0 preferred as well as up to 4% NaCl (0% preferred). Malic acid, citrate, d-glucose, d-fructose, methyl-d-glucoside, amygdalin, salicin, cellobiose, maltose, sucrose, trehalose, ribose and melibiose are used, while gluconate, capric acid, adipic acid, phenylacetic acid, N-acetyl-glucosamine, glycerol, erythritol, d-arabinose, l-arabinose, d-xylose, l-xylose, adonithol, methyl xyoside, galactose, d-mannose, sorbose, rhamnose, dulcitol, mannitol, sorbitol, inositol, methyl-d-mannoside, arbutin, inulin, melizitose, lactose, d-raffinose, starch, glycogen, xylitol, gentibiose, turanose, lyxose, tagatose, d-fucose, l-fucose, d-arabitol, l-arabitol, 2-keto-gluconate and 5-keto-gluconate are not. Vitamins are not required. Alkaline phosphatase, esterase (C4), esterase lipase (C8), leucine arylamidase, valine arylamidase, cystine arylamidase, trypsin, -chymotrypsin, acid phosphatase, naphthol-AS-Bi-phosphohydrolase, -glucosidase and N-acetyl--glucosaminidase activity are present, while arginine dihydrolase, lipase, -galactosidase, -galactosidase, -glucuronidase, -glucosidase, -mannosidase, -fucosidase, urease and nitrate reductase are not. Aesculin and gelatin are hydrolysed. Indole positive; methyl red and VogesProskauer negative. All physiological and biochemical traits are summarized in Table 1. The primary fatty acids are iso C15 : 0, iso C17:1 9c, iso C17 : 0 3-OH and summed feature 4 (iso-C15 : 0 2-OH and/or C16:1 7c). Phosphatidylethanolamine is the predominant polar lipid, and the only menaquinone is MK-6. The DNA G+C content is 37.2 mol%. This bacterium was isolated from the roots of the aquatic plant Salvinia minima. The type strain is T9W2-OT (=NRRL B-65715T =DSM 118061T).
Strain T9W2-OT ribosomal 16S rRNA gene sequence under the GenBank accession number OR878552. This Whole Genome Shotgun project has been deposited at DDBJ/ENA/GenBank under the accession JAYLAA000000000. The version described in this article is version JAYLAA010000000.
 Description of Chryseobacterium salviniae sp. nov.Description of Clostridium sediminicola sp. nov.
 Clostridium sediminicola (se.di.mi.nico.la. L. neut. n. sedimen, sediment; L. suff. -cola, inhabitant, dweller; N.L. n. sediminicola, sediment-dweller, referring to the source of the type strain).
Cells are Gram-stain-positive, spore-forming, rod-shaped and motile with peritrichous flagella. Growth occurs at temperatures ranging from 15 to 40 C, NaCl concentrations of 0.56.0% and pH 6.08.0. Optimum growth occurs at 35 C, NaCl 2.0% (w/v) and pH 7.5. This bacterium is strictly anaerobic. It shows oil aggregation activity against crude oil. It utilizes d-glucose, maltose, d-mannose, d-fructose, d-galactose, sucrose and alginate, but not d-cellobiose, lactose, casamino acid, fumarate, lactate, glycerol, d-xylose, l-malic acid, l-valine, l-isoleucine or dulcitol. It produces acetate, formate, ethanol and CO2. The cell-wall peptidoglycan contains meso-diaminopimelic acid. Major fatty acid is C16:0. Polar lipids comprise diphosphatidylglycerol, phosphatidylglycerol, glycolipid and three unidentified polar lipids. The type strain SH18-2T (=NBRC 116030T=DSM 115762T) was isolated from marine sediment near Sado Island in the Sea of Japan at a depth of 410 m. The G+C content of the bacterium is 29.7 mol%. The GenBank/EMBL/DDBJ accession numbers for the draft genome and 16S rRNA gene sequence of strain SH18-2T are BAABMF010000001BAABMF010000109 and LC795721, respectively.
 Description of Clostridium sediminicola sp. nov.Description of Pseudomonas retamae sp. nov.
 Pseudomonas retamae sp. nov. (re.tamae. N.L. gen. n. retamae, of Retama, the botanical generic name of the plant R. monosperma from which this bacterium was isolated).
Cells are aerobic, Gram-stain-negative, rod shaped, of ~1.02.0 m in size, non-spore forming and motile by single polar flagellum. Colonies are whiteyellow, round with smooth surfaces and well-defined edges on LB medium. Growth occurs between 4 and 42 C (optimum, 28 C), from pH 5 to 10 (optimum, 5.58.0) and in the presence of up to 6% (w/v) NaCl (optimum, 0.5%). Oxidase- and catalase-positive. In API 20 NE, API 20 E and VITEK 2 system, positive responses are observed for nitrate reduction, gelatin hydrolysis, citrate utilization, succinate and l-lactate alkalinization and negative reactions for H2S production. The strain has the ability to oxidize l-arabinose, d-glucose, d-mannose, l-rhamnose, sorbitol, sucrose and amygdaline, but not melibiose and inositol. Additionally, it demonstrates positive assimilation for glucose, arabinose, mannose, mannitol, maltose, N-acetylglucosamine, potassium gluconate, capric acid, malic acid and trisodium citrate. However, it is negative for the assimilation of malonate, l-malate, l-lactate, l-histidine and 5-keto-d-gluconate, d-tagatose, adonitol, l-arabitol, d-cellobiose, palatinose and d-trehalose. It produces tyrosine arylamidase, l-proline arylamidase, ala-phe-pro-arylamidase, but not - and -galactosidases, arginine dihydrolase, ornithine decarboxylase, lysine decarboxylase, urease, - and -glucosidases, beta-N-acetyl-glucosaminidase, -xylosidase, glycine arylamidase, l-pyrrolidonyl arylamidase, glutamyl arylamidase, beta-alanine arylamidase, -glucuronidase, gamma-glutamyl transferase, beta-N-acetyl-galactosaminidase and lipase. The most abundant fatty acids are C16:0, C17:0 cyclo and summed feature 3 (C16:1 7c/C16:1 6c). The genome size is 6311310 bp, with 60 mol% G+C content, and is predicted to harbour 5627 protein-coding genes and 60 tRNA-coding genes. GenBank accession numbers for 16S rRNA and whole genome sequence are OR750502 and JBIEIL000000000, respectively. The type strain of P. retamae sp. nov., RB5T, was isolated from root nodules of R. monosperma thriving in the coastal dune ecosystem of northwest Algeria. RB5T was deposited in internationally recognized cell-type culture collections such as BCCM/LMG, DSMZ and CIP RB5T(=DSM 117471T =LMG 33633T =CIP 112482 T), to be available for further biochemical, physiological, taxonomic and genetic studies.
 Description of Pseudomonas retamae sp. nov.Description of Owariibacterium gen. nov.
 Owariibacterium (O.wa.ri.i.bac.teri.um. N.L. neut. n. bacterium, a rod; N.L. neut. n. Owariibacterium, a rod from Owari, a historical province in Japan, where the type strain was isolated).
Cells are strictly anaerobic, non-motile rods and non-spore-forming. The major cellular fatty acids are C16:0 and C18:19c. Genome size is 3.61 Mbp with a G+C content of 54.5%. Members of this genus can be identified based on the 16S rRNA gene and genome sequence-based lineages alongside phenotypic characterizations. The type species of the genus is Owariibacterium komagatae.
 Description of Owariibacterium gen. nov.Description of Owariibacterium komagatae sp. nov.
 Owariibacterium komagatae (ko.ma.gatae. N.L. gen. n. komagatae, named after Dr Kazuo Komagata, a Japanese microbiologist, in recognition of his significant contributions to microbial taxonomy and systematics.)
Cells are strictly anaerobic, non-motile rods, measuring 0.40.6m in width and 1.82.2m in length. They grow optimally at 3242Ctemperatures and tolerate up to 1% NaCl. Colonies on GAM agar are white, small (0.30.6mm in diameter), circular, slightly raised colonies with smooth margins. The API 20 A test shows that the cells metabolize d-glucose, but do not metabolize l-tryptophan, urea, d-mannitol, d-lactose, d-saccharose, d-maltose, salicin, d-xylose, l-arabinose, gelatin, aesculin ferric citrate, glycerol, d-cellobiose, d-mannose, d-melezitose, d-raffinose, d-sorbitol, l-rhamnose or d-trehalose. According to the RAPID ID 32 A test, the cells are positive for -galactosidase (variable), -glucosidase (variable), -glucuronidase (variable) and N-acetyl--glucosaminidase (variable). The cells show no activity for urease, arginine dihydrolase, -galactosidase, -glucosidase, -arabinosidase, mannose fermentation, glutamate decarboxylase, -fucosidase, nitrate reductase, indole production, alkaline phosphatase, arginine arylamidase, proline arylamidase, leucyl glycine arylamidase, phenylalanine arylamidase, leucine arylamidase, pyroglutamic acid arylamidase, tyrosine arylamidase, alanine arylamidase, glycine arylamidase, histidine arylamidase, glutamyl glutamic acid arylamidase or serine arylamidase. The API ZYM test reveals that the cells are positive for esterase (C4), naphthol-AS-BI-phosphohydrolase and -glucuronidase but are negative for alkaline phosphatase, esterase lipase (C8), lipase (C14), leucine arylamidase, valine arylamidase, cystine arylamidase, trypsin, -chymotrypsin, acid phosphatase, -galactosidase, -galactosidase, -glucosidase, -glucosidase, N-acetyl--glucosaminidase, -mannosidase or -fucosidase. The fermentation product is acetate. The major cellular fatty acids include C16:0 and C18:19c. The genome measures 3.61 Mbp with a G+C content of 54.5%. The type strain, 13GAM1GT (= JCM 36131T = DSM 116982T), was isolated from human faeces. The GenBank/EMBL/DDBJ accession numbers are LC776915 for the 16S rRNA gene sequence and AP031406 for the genome sequence.
 Description of Owariibacterium komagatae sp. nov.Description of Desulfovibrio falkowii sp. nov.
 Desulfovibrio falkowii (fal.kowi.i. N.L. gen. n. falkowii, named after Dr. Stanley Falkow, an American microbiologist, in recognition of his contributions to the field of microbiology.)
Cells are strictly anaerobic, non-motile rods, rods- to spiral-shaped bacteria measuring 0.63m in width and 1.018.0m in length. They grow optimally at 2537Ctemperature and tolerate up to 3% NaCl. Colonies on GAM agar are white, pinpoint (0.20.4mm in diameter), circular, slightly raised colonies with smooth margins. The biochemical testing using the API 20 A panel shows that the cells do not metabolize l-tryptophan, urea, d-glucose, d-mannitol, d-lactose, d-sucrose, d-maltose, salicin, d-xylose, l-arabinose, gelatin, glycerol, d-cellobiose, d-mannose, d-melezitose, D-raffinose, d-sorbitol, l-rhamnose or D-trehalose; however, the cells hydrolyze aesculin ferric citrate. The Rapid ID 32 A tests reveal negative reactions for urease, arginine dihydrolase, -galactosidase, -galactosidase, -glucosidase, -glucosidase, -arabinosidase, -glucuronidase, N-acetyl--glucosaminidase, mannose fermentation, glutamate decarboxylase, -fucosidase, nitrate reductase, indole production, alkaline phosphatase, arginine arylamidase, proline arylamidase, leucyl glycine arylamidase, phenylalanine arylamidase, leucine arylamidase, pyroglutamic acid arylamidase, tyrosine arylamidase, alanine arylamidase, glycine arylamidase, histidine arylamidase, glutamyl glutamic acid arylamidase or serine arylamidase. The fermentation product is acetate. The major cellular fatty acids are iso-C15:0 and C18:19c. The genome spans 3.41 Mbp with a G+C content of 57.4%. The type strain, 13CB8CT (= JCM 36128T = DSM 116810T), was isolated from human faeces. The GenBank/EMBL/DDBJ accession numbers are LC776912 for the 16S rRNA gene sequence and BAAFSG000000000 for the genome sequence.
 Description of Desulfovibrio falkowii sp. nov.Description of Porphyromonas miyakawae sp. nov.
 Porphyromonas miyakawae (mi.ya.kawae. N.L. gen. n. miyakawae, named after Dr. Masasumi Miyakawa, a Japanese scientist, in recognition of his significant contributions to the establishment of germ-free animal models).
Cells are strictly anaerobic, non-motile rods, measuring 0.70.9m in width and 1.62.0m in length. They grow optimally within a 3242Ctemperature range. Colonies on Columbia agar with 5% horse blood are opaque, pinpoint (0.20.4mm in diameter), circular, convex colonies with smooth margins, turning grey and black-pigmented over time. The strains metabolic capabilities, as determined by the API 20 A test, include positive reactions for l-tryptophan hydrolysis and gelatin but negative results for urea, d-glucose, d-mannitol, d-lactose, d-sucrose, d-maltose, salicin, d-xylose, l-arabinose, aesculin ferric citrate, glycerol, d-cellobiose, d-mannose, d-melezitose, d-raffinose, d-sorbitol, l-rhamnose and d-trehalose. Further enzymatic profiling using RAPID ID 32 A shows negative reactions for most tested enzymes including urease, arginine dihydrolase, -galactosidase, -galactosidase, -glucosidase, -glucosidase, -arabinosidase, -glucuronidase, N-acetyl--glucosaminidase, mannose fermentation, glutamate decarboxylase, -fucosidase, nitrate reductase, arginine arylamidase, proline arylamidase, leucyl glycine arylamidase, phenylalanine arylamidase, leucine arylamidase, pyroglutamic acid arylamidase, tyrosine arylamidase, alanine arylamidase, glycine arylamidase, histidine arylamidase and glutamyl glutamic acid arylamidase. However, the cells are positive for indole production and alkaline phosphatase, indicating specific enzymatic activities. The API ZYM test shows that the cells are positive for alkaline phosphatase, acid phosphatase and naphthol-AS-BI-phosphohydrolase and weakly positive for esterase (C4). However, the cells are negative for esterase lipase (C8), lipase (C14), leucine arylamidase, valine arylamidase, cystine arylamidase, trypsin, -chymotrypsin, -galactosidase, -galactosidase, -glucuronidase, -glucosidase, -glucosidase, N-acetyl--glucosaminidase, -mannosidase or -fucosidase. The fermentation products are acetate, propionate, isobutyrate, butyrate and isovalerate. The major cellular fatty acids are iso-C13:0 and iso-C15:0. The genome size is 2.05 Mbp with a G+C content of 45.1%. The type strain, 13CB11CT (= JCM 36129T = DSM 116947T), was isolated from human faeces. The GenBank/EMBL/DDBJ accession numbers are LC776913 for the 16S rRNA gene sequence and BAAFSF000000000 for the genome sequence.
 Description of Porphyromonas miyakawae sp. nov.Description of Mediterraneibacter flintii sp. nov.
 Mediterraneibacter flintii (flinti.i. N.L. gen. n. flintii, named after Dr. Harry J. Flint, a British microbiologist, in recognition of his significant contributions to the study of human gut microbiology).
Cells are strictly anaerobic, non-motile rods, measuring ~0.61.0m in width and 2.32.7m in length. They thrive within a 3242Ctemperature range and tolerate up to 2% NaCl. Colonies on GAM agar are cream to semi-transparent white, pinpoint (0.20.4mm in diameter), circular or irregular, flat colonies with undulated margins. Biochemical testing using the API 20 A panel reveals that cells metabolize none of d-glucose, d-saccharose, d-maltose, salicin, d-cellobiose, d-mannose, l-rhamnose and d-trehalose effectively but do not metabolize l-tryptophan, urea, d-mannitol, d-lactose, d-xylose, l-arabinose, gelatin, aesculin ferric citrate, glycerol, d-melezitose, d-raffinose and d-sorbitol. The Rapid ID 32 A tests show a positive reaction for -glucosidase; variable reactions for -glucuronidase; and negative reactions for urease, arginine dihydrolase, -galactosidase, -galactosidase, -glucosidase, -arabinosidase, N-acetyl--glucosaminidase, mannose fermentation, glutamate decarboxylase, -fucosidase, nitrate reductase, indole production, alkaline phosphatase, arginine arylamidase, proline arylamidase, leucyl glycine arylamidase, phenylalanine arylamidase, leucine arylamidase, pyroglutamic acid arylamidase, tyrosine arylamidase, alanine arylamidase, glycine arylamidase, histidine arylamidase, glutamyl glutamic acid arylamidase or serine arylamidase. The API ZYM test reveals that the cells are positive for -glucuronidase and -glucosidase and weakly positive for naphthol-AS-BI-phosphohydrolase. However, the cells are negative for alkaline phosphatase, esterase (C4), esterase lipase (C8), lipase (C14), leucine arylamidase, valine arylamidase, cystine arylamidase, trypsin, -chymotrypsin, acid phosphatase, -galactosidase, -galactosidase, -glucosidase, N-acetyl--glucosaminidase, -mannosidase or -fucosidase. The fermentation product is acetate. The major cellular fatty acids include C14:0 and C18:19c. The genome spans 3.90 Mbp with a G+C content of 41.8%. The type strain, 13CB18CT (= JCM 36130T = DSM 116866T), was isolated from human faeces. The GenBank/EMBL/DDBJ accession numbers LC776914 for the 16S rRNA gene sequence and AP031405 for the genome sequence.
 Description of Mediterraneibacter flintii sp. nov.Description of Pseudobensingtonia carpini sp. nov. F.L. Hui & C.Y. Chai sp. nov.
 Pseudobensingtonia carpini (car.pini. N.L. fem. gen. n. carpini referring to Carpinus, the plant genus from which the type strain was isolated).
On YM agar after 7days at 20C, the streak culture is yellow-coloured, smooth and butyrous, and the margin is entire. In YM broth after 3days at 20C, cells are ellipsoidal to cylindrical (3.44.18.69.3m) and occur singly (Fig. 2). Budding is polar. After 1month at 20C in stationary cultures in YM broth, sediment and a ring are present. After 7days in Dalmau plate culture on CM agar at 20C, pseudohyphae and true hyphae are absent. Sexual structures are not observed on PDA, CM agar or V8 agar at 17C. Ballistoconidia are not produced. Glucose fermentation is absent. Glucose, inulin, sucrose, galactose (delayed), lactose (delayed), trehalose, maltose, melezitose, methyl--d-glucoside (delayed and weak), cellobiose, l-sorbose, d-xylose, l-arabinose, d-ribose, glycerol, erythritol, d-mannitol, d-glucitol, dl-lactate (delayed and weak), 2-keto-d-gluconate, d-glucuronate and d-gluconate are assimilated as sole carbon sources. Melibiose, raffinose, salicin, l-rhamnose, d-arabinose, 5-keto-d-gluconate, methanol, ethanol, ribitol, galactitol, myo-inositol, succinate, citrate, d-glucosamine, N-acetyl-d-glucosamine and d-glucono-1,5-lactone are not assimilated. Ethylamine (delayed and weak) and l-lysine (delayed) are assimilated as sole nitrogen sources. Nitrite, nitrate and cadaverine are not assimilated. Maximum growth temperature is 25C. Growth in vitamin-free medium is positive. Growth on 50% (w/w) glucose-yeast extract agar is positive. Starch-like substances are not produced. Urease activity is positive. Diazonium Blue B reaction is positive.
Holotype GDMCC 2.483T was isolated from a leaf of Carpinus turczaninowii Hance collected in Tianchi Mountain, Henan Province, central China. It has been preserved in a metabolically inactive state in the Guangdong Microbial Culture Collection Center (GDMCC), Guangdong, PR China. The ex-type culture has been deposited in a metabolically inactive state in the Portuguese Yeast Culture Collection (PYCC), Caparica, Portugal, as strain PYCC 9989 (= NYNU 236247). The GenBank/EMBL/DDBJ/PIR accession numbers for the sequences of the D1/D2 domain of the LSU rRNA gene and the ITS region determined in this study are OR426461 and OR426462 for GDMCC 2.483T and PQ373841 and PQ373842 for NYNU 23523, respectively. The MycoBank number is MB 857072.
 Description of Pseudobensingtonia carpini sp. nov. F.L. Hui & C.Y. Chai sp. nov.Description of Pseudomonas spirodelae sp. nov.
 Pseudomonas spirodelae (spi.ro.delae. N.L. gen. n. spirodelae, of duckweed, referring to the isolation from Spirodela polyrhiza).
Gram-negative, motile, non-spore forming and obligately aerobic, showing circular (12mm), raised, non-pigmented colonies with entire margins on TSA plates after 24h. Cells are rod-shaped, 0.751.5m in length and 0.5m in width. Catalase and oxidase positive. Growth occurs between 5 and 40C, with 30C being optimal, and from pH 4.5 to 10.0, with pH 7.0 preferred, as well as up to 4% NaCl (0% preferred). Adipic acid is used, while glycerol, erythritol, d-arabinose, l-arabinose, ribose, d-xylose, l-xylose, adonithol, methyl xyoside, galactose, d-glucose, d-fructose, d-mannose, sorbose, rhamnose, dulcitol, inositol, mannitol, sorbitol, methyl-d-mannoside, methyl-d-glucoside, N-acetyl-glucosamine, amygdalin, arbutin, salicin, cellobiose, maltose, lactose, melibiose, sucrose, trehalose, inulin, melizitose, d-raffinose, starch, glycogen, xylitol, turanose, lyxose, tagatose, d-fucose, l-fucose, d-arabitol, l-arabitol, 2-keto-gluconate, 5-keto-gluconate, caparic acid, malic acid, trisodium citrate and phenylacetic acid are not. Vitamins are not required. Alkaline phosphatase, esterase (C4), esterase lipase (C8), lipase, leucine arylamidase, valine arylamidase, cystine arylamidase, -chymotrypsin, acid phosphatase, naphthol-AS-Bi-phosphohydrolase, -galactosidase, nitrate reductase and arginine dihydrolase activity is present while trypsin, -galactosidase, -glucuronidase, -glucosidase, -glucosidase, N-acetyl--glucosaminidase, -mannosidase and -fucosidase are not. Aesculin and gelatin are not hydrolyzed. Indole, methyl red and VogesProskauer negative. All physiological and biochemical traits are summarized in Table 1. The primary fatty acids are summed feature 3 (C16:1 7c and/or C16:1 6c), C18:1 w7c and C16:0. Q-9 is the primary ubiquinone found, and phosphatidylethanolamine is the dominant polar lipid, with lesser amounts of phosphatidylglycerol and diphosphatidylglycerol. The DNA G+C content is 59.3mol%. This bacterium was isolated from the roots of the aquatic plant Spirodela polyrhiza. The type strain is T5W1T (=NRRL B-65714T =DSM 118085T).
Strain T5W1T ribosomal 16S rRNA gene sequence is under the GenBank accession number OR878632. This Whole-Genome Shotgun project has been deposited at DDBJ/ENA/GenBank under the accession number JAYEET000000000. The version described in this paper is version JAYEET000000000. The type strain is T5W1T.
 Description of Pseudomonas spirodelae sp. nov.